ZHAOWEN BOOKSTORE
You need at least a month to recover.
I don't have a month.
My guards are barely hanging on,
and my mother hasn't been buried.
What I need now isn't healing,
but the strength to wield my blades.
I figured you'd say that.
I've prepared medicine for you.
Take one when your strength gives out.
But this method comes at a cost.
It'll weaken your inner energy by 30%.
The damage will linger.
Even if the wounds heal,
the pain will stay with you for life.
-If you trust me…
-I trust you.
To deal with them,
70% of my strength is more than enough.
That half-finished
The Tale of the Silken Robe was about
the impossibility of balancing loyalty
to one's ruler
and filial piety to one's family.
I've gone from an observer
to a character in the story itself.
I remember
the woman in the fox mask told me…
If the second act really depicted
the son putting his father on trial,
wouldn't that be shocking
and unconventional?
You think a son
shouldn't judge his father?
That familial bonds outweigh justice?
What I mean is,
what's wrong with being unconventional?
We're not characters in a play.
Whatever happened in the past,
whether you believe it or not,
whether it's true or false,
none of it matters.
How come?
Are you
really not her?
My Lord, your focus should be
taking care of your current problem.
Everything else can wait.
I'll go prepare
a change of clothes for you.
How did he escape?
He was heavily injured!
There was someone
on the inside helping him.
They coordinated to break him out.
Find him! Search the entire capital
if you have to!
Yes, sir!
Go! Go!
Interrogate Song Mo's personal guard,
break them if you have to!
I refuse to believe he could have
gotten far with injuries like that.
-Yes, Master.
-Also,
invite the elders from
the main and third branches,
along with those old fools.
-I'm calling for a clan council.
-Yes, Master.
Wait.
Have my trained death guards
been recalled?
Everything's been arranged.
Go.
PURE AS ICE, FINE AS JADE
So, you've made up your mind.
You were right.
No matter how shocking or unconventional,
grudges and debts must be settled.
Even if it costs my life,
even if the world condemns me as unfilial,
it will all be worth it
if just one person believes me
and understands me.
I promise you,
no matter what you do out there
or what others say,
I'll stand by you.
Hearing that from you
is enough.
This is…
Young Lady, you're the lady
in the fox mask.
Why won't you tell His Lordship?
Things are still far from settled.
I don't want him to be distracted.
If I survive,
I'll come back for you!
ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL BLOSSOM
BY AUTHOR ZIZI FROM QIDIAN CHINESE WEBSITE
FUNERAL TRIBUTE
DUKE OF YING'S RESIDENCE
Where are my guards?
ELDEST UNCLE OF SONG FAMILY, SONG MAO CHUN
He's calling a clan council
in the middle of the night.
But we've been waiting for four hours.
Something must have gone wrong.
What could possibly go wrong?
He's been flogged over a hundred times.
Anyone else would've been dead by now.
Mao Chun.
Our apologies.
The nerve of you to commit murder
in the Duke of Ying's Residence!
Lord Song has said that
there are intruders in the residence.
The family must draw a clear line
between themselves and the intruders.
Consider this the line.
Those within the ancestral hall live;
those outside it die
-No!
-How dare you!
This is the Duke of Ying's Residence!
Why do all the dead look so unfamiliar?
Could they really be intruders?
You… You have no regard for the law!
This is outrageous!
Lu Zheng? Lu Zheng?
Lu Zheng?
It's me. I'm back.
My Lord,
I didn't talk.
I…
I didn't betray you.
-Zheng!
-Go!
Lu Ming, go!
-Zheng!
-Get him off the door!
Protect His Lordship.
Hurry up.
Zheng!
We have go now! Go!
You did well.
You saved my life.
All of you saved my life.
They…
They tried to force me
to press my fingerprint,
so I…
I bit my fingers until they were ruined.
The others did the same.
Not one of us gave in.
Lu Zheng, hold on for me.
The doctor will be here soon.
Stay with me.
Lu Zheng, keep your eyes open!
My Lord,
where is my brother?
Zheng, I'm here.
Ming,
keep…
Keep His Lordship safe for me.
I will.
-Protect…
-I will.
His Lordship.
-Lu Zheng? Lu Zheng?
-Zheng?
Lu Zheng!
Zheng!
General!
LOFTY MOUNTAINS, ADMIRABLE VIRTUES
Your Grace, they've broken through!
Shouldn't we escape?
Very well, very well!
He's just like his uncle Jiang Mei Sun!
His Lordship has gone this far.
-He might even…
-He won't dare.
He can't.
With Liaodong's Lizhen forces
pressing at the gates
and external threats unresolved,
His Majesty won't tolerate
any internal strife.
Take this blade.
Go summon reinforcements.
-Me?
-Go!
Yes, sir!
You ungrateful son,
I know exactly what you're after.
Han.
-Mo.
-I'm glad you're fine.
Mo,
please don't be mad at Father.
I'm not mad.
Those I ordered to kill
are traitorous servants.
Only by restoring peace to the residence
can we properly honor Mother's passing.
Where is the jade pendant
Grandfather gave us?
I've kept it with me at all times.
I wasn't home when Mother was gravely ill.
Tell me everything.
Where is Nanny Xie?
She served Mother for decades.
Where is she now?
They said she was unwell and
sent her back to her hometown,
but she was killed by bandits on the way.
Which doctor treated Mother
during her illness?
Her Majesty visited several times.
She was deeply concerned.
The first doctor was
recommended by Her Majesty.
Then, when Mother's condition
worsened in the fall,
the Crown Prince recommended a new one.
-Lu Ming.
-Yes, sir.
-Guard Xixiang House.
Mo!
I'm begging you,
please don't hurt Father.
Yi Chun!
Come here! It's safe here.
Father, don't you owe me an explanation?
The Jiang family has been
branded traitors,
and in your eyes,
my uncle and I are no different.
Since you've managed
to fight your way back,
just say what you want.
I've always seen you as my father,
but did you ever once see me as your son?
Words are meaningless now.
The affair was a misunderstanding,
the ones you killed were traitors,
and your mother's dowry
and private assets are yours.
Let's put everything
behind us.
Thank you for saying that.
You've made it easier for me
to let go of the remaining love
I had for you.
This is the lantern I gave you to
express my love after you scolded me
during my last visit home.
I found it abandoned in
the storage room yesterday.
The wick remains untouched,
and the paper is covered in ash.
You never even looked at it.
All these years,
it was just my wishful thinking.
I took 40 lashes for you,
and you punished me with 100 floggings.
I've repaid the debt of blood
and kinship you gave me.
From this moment on,
our bond as father and son is severed,
just like this lantern!
The only reason I can stand here
and speak to you calmly
is for the sake of Mother's funeral.
I will serve as the chief mourner
on the seventh day,
and I will carry the banner
on the forty-ninth day.
You're seizing the right
to lead the funeral rites,
isn't this just your way
of declaring to the capital
that you've secured
your position as my heir?
In the end, you're only
doing this for yourself!
Since I joined the army,
I've never relied on
this dukedom for anything.
From now on, whatever I want,
I'll earn with my own efforts.
I'm moving to Grandfather's
former residence, Yizhi Hall.
From now on, we have nothing
more to do with each other.
But when it comes to Mother's funeral,
you must fulfill your duties
as her husband
and ensure she is sent off with dignity.
Su Lan,
burn the used bandages as well.
Leave no trace behind.
Yes, Young Lady.
Prince Qing has sent an urgent message,
Lizhen forces have repeatedly
violated our borders,
causing great suffering
to the border residents.
I believe
we should send Wang Xing Yi
and the Jiliao Governor-General,
to deploy an additional 30,000 troops
to confront Lizhen.
Without reinforcements,
the current Liaodong forces
won't hold for long,
and Lizhen could reach
Daitong within ten days.
What is the state of the treasury?
The Ministry of Works is still
constructing Yuan You Palace.
The project is far from complete.
Your Majesty, the Lizhen tribe
is extremely impoverished.
They've repeatedly requested to open
horse markets in exchange for grain,
which speaks volumes.
Their current invasion is
likely a desperate attempt
to plunder food and
livestock before winter.
This conflict may not require combat.
This is a discussion between
the Grand Secretariat and
His Majesty about border defense.
You're overstepping, Minister Dou.
Grand Secretary Wu,
this concerns national security,
I cannot remain silent.
If this war can be resolved
within a month,
the Ministry of Revenue can manage.
But if it drags on for three months,
we'll have to impose additional taxes
to fund the military.
And in that case, how will the people
of Su, Song, Jia, and Hu prefectures
manage their spring planting next year?
Your Majesty, the horse markets
must not be reopened!
I was demoted
for opposing this once before.
I don't mind being demoted again.
Opening the markets will only
breed corruption within the court
and empower our enemies.
I beseech Your Majesty
to make a wise decision.
To guard the borders and
protect the nation's foundations
is the sacred duty left
by the founding emperor.
Our dynasty upholds integrity and honor.
We oppose this to the death!
Your Majesty!
Quick, bring Empress Wan's elixir!
-Yes, sir.
If only Mei Sun were here.
He's sent another one today?
Yes, Master.
Ever since Young Lady Zhao was grounded,
Young Master Wu has been delivering
a handwritten copy of Admonitions
for Women to the back gate every day,
often including food
and newspapers as well.
Such elegant brushwork,
his handwriting really is beautiful.
Has Shi Ying departed?
He left right after dinner.
He's headed to Taiyuan Prefecture
to audit the accounts.
It'll take him at least two weeks.
Master,
about what Young Lady Zhao did last night,
what should we do?
Shou Gu's reckless and defiant attitude
needs to be dealt with.
Send a message to
the Office of State Affairs.
FUNERAL TRIBUTE
LONGEVITY
Funeral rites are always led by
the head of the family.
Why is the Duke of Ying's
eldest son taking over instead?
Look at Song Mo, he's not even crying.
How unfilial.
Exactly.
What's wrong with
the eldest son taking charge?
Whether he's filial or not,
whether he cries or not,
what does that have to do with you?
For a noble family with hereditary rank,
is this really all they can
manage for Lady Jiang?
So shabby.
Exactly. Lord Song is
always out gallivanting.
I heard he didn't even make it
back to see his mother one last time.
Have some decency, would you?
Stop criticizing him.
Where were you when Song Mo
was risking his life fighting pirates?
I doubt any of you would make it
back to see your mothers either.
I've come to join the rites.
Don't worry, I'm here with you.
From now on, no one
on all of East Fourth Street
will dare say a single bad word about you.
Thank you.
DUKE OF DING'S ARMY, LU ZHENG
My Lord,
I will take my brother's place.
From now on,
I will protect you with my life,
no matter the cost.
Even if we know who killed Lu Zheng,
yet cannot seek revenge right now,
are you still willing to follow me?
No matter what decisions you make,
I will lead the charge for you.
Please grant me this wish.
Bring the wine.
I, Song Yan Tang,
will never forget your loyalty.
Here's to all of you.
May you rest in peace.
May you rest in peace!
My Lord!
How did it go? No one noticed, right?
Young Lady.
Everything is settled.
Song Mo personally oversaw Lady Jiang's
funeral as the chief mourner.
He's secured his position as heir.
Lu Zheng is gone.
Lu Zheng, who was supposed
to live, has died early.
Prepare for battle!
Sister.
-Who is it?
-Young Lady Zhao,
Master Shi Shu requests
your presence at the ancestral hall.
Uncle Shi Shu.
May I know why you want
to see me at this hour?
Shou Gu,
you've always made it clear you
don't want to marry the Marquis of Jining.
Why don't you just tell us the truth now?
Perhaps we can still
find a way to help you.
What does that mean?
-Zou Er.
-Yes, Master.
-I clearly burned…
-Su Lan.
You clearly burned what?
This bloodstained garment really
does have something to do with you.
Shi Shu, this is solid evidence.
Why would you assume
I had something to do with
the bloodstained garment?
You went behind your family
and meet a man in secret at night.
You're disgracing the entire family.
Guards!
Young Lady Zhao has dishonored the family.
Prepare the family punishment.
Yes, Master.
Master, the family punishment is ready.
Madam Ying Xue is waiting for you.
I wanted the elder daughter to
marry for status, the second for power.
Everything should've gone perfectly.
But this pawn refused to play its part
leading to a losing move.
Find a way to leak news
of Dou Zhao to Wu Shan.
If we can exchange this pawn
for another advantage,
it will still be worth it.
ROOK
What do you mean, Master?
Wu Shan has always desired Dou Zhao
but couldn't have her.
If he learns she's suffering,
won't he be desperate to save her?
Understood. I'll see to it immediately.
Thank His Grace!
You're finally awake, My Lord!
His Lordship is awake!
My Lord.
My Lord, you're finally awake.
How long was I asleep?
Seven full days.
The imperial physicians
came several times.
They said you'd injured
your internal organs,
overstrained your body with medicine,
and drained your spirit.
They said you might never wake up again.
Thankfully, you've made it back
from death's door.
Where is Dou Zhao?
How is she?
-Young Lady Zhao is…
-Lu Ming.
What happened?
Tell me!
Mr. Chen said
Young Lady Zhao was punished
by Master Shi Shu
for meeting a man in secret at night.
Meeting a man in secret?
That was me.
-My Lord.
The chaos in your residence
has only just settled,
and you've barely survived.
-Your body can't take this.
-He's right.
She saved my life.
If my body can't take it,
then consider it as returning
the favor to her.
The matter regarding Young Lady Zhao
has settled down.
But the Wu family…
The Wu family?
What about the Wu family?
-Young Master, you can't go in!
-Go away!
-You can't go in!
-Get out of my way!
What are you doing to her?
Are you trying to kill her?
Get away from her!
Young Lady Zhao.
The bloodstained garment is mine.
Young Master Wu, you cannot
say such things recklessly!
How could that garment
possibly belong to you?
I coughed up blood due to my lung ailment.
Well, well, the Wu family heir
lives up to his reputation.
How responsible.
But isn't that excuse
a little far-fetched?
I was the one who acted rashly
and behaved inappropriately.
Young Lady Zhao is completely blameless.
Please punish me instead, Minister Dou.
Grand Sectary Wu abuses his influence,
allowing his grandson to
trespass on private residences
and seduces a betrothed daughter
of our family,
treating our family with utter disrespect.
This is beyond my authority.
I'll hand you over
to the Office of State Affairs.
Seducing the legitimate daughter
of a noble family
is a crime punishable by death.
What a pity.
That night,
I was seeking medical advice.
There was nothing improper between us.
You're the son of a noble family,
yet you've been visiting
Dou's Residence frequently.
How could you claim innocence?
Or perhaps there's more to it.
Grand Sectary Wu has been lobbying
for war against Lizhen.
Were you at their residence
to gauge their stance
and push your grandfather's agenda?
What does this have to do
with my grandfather?
In times of crisis,
loyal ministers reveal their character.
In chaos, true patriots stand out.
Defending the nation with one's life
is the duty of every subject.
There's no room for tolerating treachery.
Why would that require lobbying?
So, Wu Shan claims
Grand Secretary Wu believes
we live in dangerous, chaotic times,
that those advocating for peace
are disloyal,
and that His Majesty
is harboring traitors.
Wu Shan admits to using
the Dou family's daughter
to probe the officials' stance,
intending to form factions.
That's not true.
You're twisting my words!
Who are you people?
Guards!
I demand to see Dou Shi Shu!
Buckets of bloody water were poured out
from the prison of
the Office of State Affairs.
Every confession has been steered
toward accusations of the Wu family
lobbying and forming factions.
What about the civil officials
who frequented our bookshop?
They've returned all the money.
I thought
I saved his life,
but now it seems
I owe him mine.
De Zhen has always been on good terms
with your family.
You know his character well.
Please show him mercy.
I know the importance of separating
personal feelings from official matters.
You can put your mind at ease, Xing Yi,
and please assure
Grand Secretary Wu as well,
it's not a serious matter.
Grand Secretary Wu and I
will never forgot this favor.
On behalf of my foolish student…
Thank you.
It's nothing.
Goodbye.
Uncle Shi Shu,
I beg you, please spare Wu Shan
and the Wu family.
Go back, Zhao.
This is no longer your concern.
Ever since Wu Shan was sent to prison,
the servants of officials, big and
small, have been swarming our residence.
Even Minister Mu and
Minister Zhao have come in person.
Every day, countless secret letters
pour in like a flood.
It's clear this isn't something
they intend to let slide
Women being too clever
is never a good thing.
For most families,
a scandal like this is just
a private disgrace.
But the Wu family
has held power for decades.
It's time for them to step aside
and make room for others.
The fall of the century-strong Wu family
would pave the way for your ambitions
and make your name shine in history.
This was your plan all along, wasn't it?
A wise man waits for the right moment
and acts in accordance with the times.
Going against the tide
will never end well.
Uncle.
I'm begging you.
Please spare Wu Shan!
ORCHID AND ANGELICA FOREVER FLOURISHING
Young Lady,
Mr. Chen has sent word.
Lord Song has woken up.
That's good.
Mr. Chen said His Lordship
has learned about
the bloodstained garment.
He's going to the Office of State
Affairs to clear Young Master Wu's name.
He mustn't!
If he goes now,
he'll end up dead alongside Wu Shan.
Whether it's Uncle Shi Shu, Song Yi Chun,
or the mastermind behind
the Duke of Ding's death,
they're all hoping for that outcome.
Even Yan Chao Qing co
culdn't dissuade him,
And you're still grounded.
Shou Gu!
Shou Gu,
I came back too late.
So much happened
while I was away in Chanxi.
I know you've been wronged.
How are your injuries?
Let me take a look at you.
It was all for our family's future.
My injuries don't matter.
Shou Gu,
I only just learned about this.
If I had been home,
I would never have let them hurt you.
Young Master Wu is suffering
far worse injuries in prison.
You've always valued him highly.
Why haven't you gone to see him?
After over ten years,
I've returned to your side again,
and what have I received?
Slaps, punishments and nothing else.
Father,
is my house arrest
going to last forever?
Of course not.
It's lifted,
immediately, right now!
My Lord, turning yourself in now
will undo everything we've worked for.
De Zhen is too naive and frail
to endure the coercion and torture
of the Office of State Affairs.
I can't let him take the blame for me.
Even if I turn myself in,
I have a way to get out.
What are you doing out here
in this wind and storm?
Your feet are injured.
are you trying to make it worse?
You made me a promise,
that if I saved you,
you'd cherish your life
and fight for a way forward.
Right now,
you're in no position to save Wu Shan.
You'll only give those in the shadows
more reasons to frame you,
bringing pain to those who care for you
and joy to your enemies
I can do it myself.
Stay still, or you'll scrape your wound.
Didn't you say once
that in a doctor's eyes,
everyone is just flesh and bone,
no distinction between men and women?
Why are you being shy now?
Only my feet are injured,
my hands are fine.
Besides, they had other motives
for the punishment,
so they didn't really use much force.
My feet will be fine.
What about you? Are you all right?
Let me check your pulse.
How did the Wu family
end up getting dragged into this?
Uncle Shi Shu deliberately
leaked word of me being punished
to the Wu family.
He even fabricated a bloodstained garment.
Wu Shan ended up in prison
because he was trying to save me.
I sent someone to inquire
at the Office of State Affairs.
All his confessions are twisted
to accuse him of factionalism.
I can't believe so much happened
in just a few days when I was in a coma.
But Uncle Shi Shu's words
did make me see things clearly.
A wise man waits for the right moment
and acts in accordance with the times.
Going against the tide
will never end well.
This case is no longer
about whether we had a relationship.
It's about whether the Lizhen
uprising in Liaodong
should be met with war or peace.
What's the situation in Liaodong?
Grand Secretary Wu
and the Grand Secretariat ministers
are resolutely advocating for war,
even citing the founding emperor's edicts.
But His Majesty is reluctant
to go to war with Lizhen.
After all, the treasury is in deficit,
and the nation lacks capable generals.
His Majesty doesn't want war?
Liaodong's forces are stretched thin
and lack experience
in direct confrontation.
Plus, the treasury is empty,
making a prolonged war unsustainable.
Grand Secretary Wu's push for war
comes from a place of loyalty,
but the more fervently he argues,
the harder it is for His Majesty
to back down.
For Uncle Shi Shu, who has been
laying low for so many years,
to suddenly accuse
the Wu family so boldly,
he must have read His Majesty's mind.
Based on what you've said,
Grand Secretary Wu's advice is ill-timed
and bound to lead to his downfall.
This case
is only going to get harder to resolve.
If they could set aside questions of
right and wrong, pride and disgrace,
perhaps this stalemate could be broken.
The key lies in resolving the tension
between Grand Secretary Wu
and His Majesty.
The most unpredictable thing in the world
is the human mind.
Even if I could go back,
I doubt I could sit back and do nothing.
I would rather die than admit
to these fabricated accusations.
Execute him!
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
DURING THE MAKING OF THIS FILM.
MEDICAL ACTS AND DRUGS IN THIS DRAMA
ARE FICTIONAL. DO NOT IMITATE.